---
layout: page
title: 2025 Update
description: An update on how it's going, where I've been, and what my plans are.
tags:
- update
---

It's been (_checks last post date_)... oh no. It's been a lot of time since my
last post. In my defense, since then, I've **switched industries entirely**, and
I got a job at Flashpoint as a software engineer. Then I got promoted to Senior
SWE. Add to that that we've had two more babies since that last post! Babies, as
everyone knows, are a cute and symbiotic larval form of energy vampire, and my
extra gas at the beginning and end of the day available for blog-writing has
been effectively nonexistent.

But _not today._ Today I have unlimited energy. Baby #3 is sleeping through the
night, I woke up naturally, and I'm king of the world!

Or, at least I have enough energy to update the Ruby version and get an update
post for my blog out. So here are the dev-related updates:

## What I'm Working On

Mostly I'm working on work and keeping babies alive. But when I do get some
extra energy, I've been really interested in things related to programming
languages themselves.

- I recently worked my way through Guido's
  [PEG Parser Series](https://medium.com/@gvanrossum_83706/peg-parsing-series-de5d41b2ed60)
- I'm still determined to finish
  [Crafting Interpreters](https://craftinginterpreters.com/) because it's
  incredible. I've been working through it for a while, but I recently got the
  print version because I figured I should definitely support the author, given
  everything I've learned from it so far.
- I picked up [Writing a C Compiler](https://nostarch.com/writing-c-compiler)
  which is another incredible book. I'm about a third of the way through this
  one too. I've got a C Compiler, as long as the only data type you want to use
  is `int`. The rest of the book has two parts: adding more passes and
  optimizations to the compiler, and adding more data types. My goal is to get
  through both.
- My teammates at work recently shared several "build your own X"-style blog
  posts and listings that I'll hopefully have time and energy to work on, but
  I'm trying to pace myself and not rack up too much of a backlog.
- I'd like to do a refresh of my blog site, but I didn't want to let that be a
  blocker to me getting more posts out, so I'll get to that when I get to it.
- I made the switch to Neovim as my primary editor about 6 months ago, so
  learning a lot more on that front, as well as accidentally learning Lua has
  been fun. Lua rules--it's such a happy little language.

## Some of My Goals/Interests

- My GitHub squares are sad, and that's mostly because my hobby dev has just
  been local and all of my dev for work has been on a private company git
  instance. So I'd like to get back to building and learning more in public.
- I'm buckling down and focusing on getting _much_ better at Golang, alongside
  the continuous Python learning and growth.
- I'd like to find a way to share the _buckets_ of stuff that I've learned at my
  fancy-pants dev job while still keeping proprietary stuff proprietary. So I'm
  going to think a little harder and work on some posts about some more general
  skills and tools on that front. But trust me, there's a lot of smart people at
  Flashpoint, and I've learned a lot from them.
- Although I'm not the captain of the AI train, I know that being able to use AI
  tools effectively is its own skillset, so my goal is to test out some AI code
  assistants and see if there are areas that I can fit them into my workflow
  while still keeping code quality up and maintaining my constant growth and
  learning.

## Some Other Stuff

- There are some really cool PEP's and features coming soon to Python that I'm
  really excited to get to see and use in the wild (PI-version 3.14 coming soon,
  let's gooooo)

