---
layout: page
title: How I Use AI
description: Here's what I do and don't use AI for.
tags:
  - ai
  - llms
---

The short version: I don't use AI at all for any of my writing. I do use it for
some other things.

## Background

I came across the concept of an "AI Manifesto" or "AI Usage Transparency" page
in <a href="https://cassidoo.co/ai/" rel="external">cassidoo's newsletter</a>.
She mentions a
<a href="https://www.bydamo.la/p/ai-manifesto" rel="external">post by Damola
Morenikeji</a> The basic idea is that, as AI gets more prevalent, it's important
that people are transparent about when and how they use AI so we can trust them
when they say they're not. I like that idea a lot. The rest of this page details
my AI usage.

## Coding

I do use AI to aid in my day-to-day job writing code and building software.
Specifically, I use it in my editor, mostly via tab completion, which is usually
quite good, pretty close to what I was going to type anyway, and saves me some
button pushing. Both cursor (using Gemini, Claude, and a few others) and Copilot
have actually been a delight to use, causing me at various times to go, "Oh heck
yeah," when they have a particularly good guess about what my intentions were.

So far, I haven't found any models or settings that make it make sense for me to
use the agent/chat modes for code generation more than the smallest or most
menial tasks. In general, I find that it tends to write mostly code that's
ok-ish with frequent junior-developer-like issues that I end up having to tweak,
rewrite, or scrap altogether. Sometimes, I've found it to be plain wrong. Couple
that frustration with the fact that the act of actually writing code is one of
my favorite things about my job and I pride myself on doing a good job at it,
and there (so far) hasn't been a super compelling reason to lean on the chat
agent more.

## Learning

I do use AI to augment my quick searching and research, specifically on quick
questions that I know there is a concrete answer for, as well as more vague
questions like, "How does this look. Is it idiomatic Go (or whatever)?" The
important bit is that I use it in situations where I already have a _pretty
good_ idea of the right answer and I can catch it if it's way off. I don't take
its word for granted any more than I would a single Stackoverflow answer.

## Writing

I don't use AI to help me write. Ever. Every word on this blog or anywhere else
you find my words is 100% my own words. I like that my writing has my voice in
it, manually writing things out helps me process, learn, and synthesize it into
the rest of the things I already know, and I don't see any reason that I should
let the robits sap the joy that the act of writing brings me.

## Summarizing

I _rarely_ use it for summarizing new things I'm learning about. I will _never_
use it to summarize technical documents like research papers. If somebody wrote
an article or paper about something, they (generally) used the amount of words
they used because that's how many words it took to teach the concepts right.
Using AI to summarize only does myself a disservice in the long run and
atrophies my "thinking about hard things" muscles.
